Amazon disrupted the IT industry almost
15 years ago when they launched Amazon Web Services.
The idea was to sell excess compute capacity
left over from their massive website, Amazon.com.
They sold capacity by the hour and storage by the gigabyte.
This on-demand, no contracts service also had a unique billing model.
Cloud services are built like a utility,
you pay as you go for what you use.
This billing model allows you to adapt to a changing IT landscape quickly,
build out infrastructure according to your budget,
and make decisions based on your needs not your investments.
While AWS appears to have taken the industry by storm with some companies seeing
the Cloud powerhouse as
the only logical choice to meet their complex technical infrastructure needs,
most of these organizations are using AWS Cloud inefficiently.
It is common to find companies that started out in the Cloud years ago,
found a configuration that met their needs,
set up a series of policies and procedures that made sense for them at the time,
and they haven't made many changes since.
A simple audit of their configuration has the potential to save them a lot of money,
but as in most cases in IT,
inertia sets in, and along with that comes,
if it isn't broken, don't fix it.
In cases like this,
we might also find another cost issue that companies in the Cloud run into.
Who's supporting the environment?
In the early stages of Cloud when it was only servers and switches,
the support requirements could be met by any competent infrastructure engineer.
In the ensuing years,
Cloud technology has evolved into its own practice,
requiring dedicated technologists, policies, developers, and governance.
Companies who started out in the Cloud long
ago and haven't kept pace with a technology upgrades and
improvements may also find that they don't have the right people on
the team to help them take advantage of everything the Cloud has to offer.
This course will offer broad descriptions of public Cloud in general,
but the primary focus will be on the technology provided by Amazon Web Services.
In this course, I may use AWS and Amazon interchangeably,
but please note that Amazon.com Incorporated is the parent company of AWS,
and owns other organizations such as Amazon.com,
the global e-commerce website,
Prime Video, Twitch, Ring, and whole foods.
Generally, when I say Amazon,
I mean AWS, the Cloud provider.
AWS changes frequently, so that what you see in
this course may not match what you see when you access AWS yourself.
What you see in this course reflects how the AWS management console
looks and how AWS functionality works in March of 2020.